Hi and welcome back.
Did you know it's fairly trivial
to see what address somebody is accessing on their browser
if you're connected to the same WiFi network
as somebody accessing them?
So if you were in a coffee shop
and you were accessing this page here,
somebody else in the coffee shop
connected to the same WiFi network
might quite easily be able to see what you are accessing.
So why is that important?
Remember when we create a new post,
what we're doing
is something like this.
We're accessing this page /post/create
with these query string parameters.
This is all part of the address.
As I say, it's fairly trivial to see these,
the things you're accessing
when you're connected to the same network.
So obviously for the title and some content,
maybe it doesn't matter that somebody else reads it.
But say you're sending a username and a password,
maybe it starts to matter a bit more
that they're being sent in this way as the address
as opposed to maybe in some more hidden and more secure way.
So in this video, we're going to look at that more hidden
and more secure way that it's a little bit less easy to see.
Let's go over to PyCharm and instead of using request.args,
request.args here,
we're going to be accessing a hidden payload
that comes through in the request.
This hidden payload will be called request.form, okay.
The rest stays the same.
Instead of accessing the query string parameters,
we're gonna be accessing the request.form data.
This is some hidden data
that is included when you send the form using HTML,
but of course the address is still gonna be this.
So we don't want the address to be this.
We want the form to not send the data in this format.
Instead, we want the form to send data as a hidden payload
and that is fairly simple.
If we go over to create.jinja2,
all we have to do is say method is POST.
When you do method is POST,
now the form is going to package up this information
and it's gonna attach it to a hidden payload in the request
and send it through that.
That's because according to internet standards,
the GET request cannot have data payloads,
but the POST request can.
So when you use POST,
the form attaches the data to that payload
instead of putting it in the address bar.
There are a few other benefits
like the amount of information you can send is much greater.
There's a limit to the number of characters in a URL
so if you attach it using POST,
you can send much more data, much lengthier data,
and also it's more secure.
This endpoint here though is only geared up
to accept GET requests.
If you want to accept a POST request
that has that hidden payload of data,
you must tell Flask that you want to link this root app
with a way to access POST requests.
That's really straightforward.
All you have to do is say methods equal this list here
with the POST string inside it.
Now what we've done is we've told Flask
that this root here will only receive POST requests.
If you try to access it with a GET request,
you'll now get an error and it will say,
"Hey, you didn't say you wanted to access this
"with GET requests.
"You can only do POST requests."
And that's it.
Now when we run our app and we go back to Chrome
and we go over to create,
I'll show you the form,
see this is what you get
if you access it using a GET request.
If you go over to the form,
you'll see this and my second post, hi there,
and when you submit,
you get back here and everything works and I promise you,
even though it was too quick for us to see,
there was nothing sent as query string parameters.
So now we can delete this from there.
Nothing was sent as query string parameters.
Now they're being sent, as you can see here in the logs,
as a POST request instead of a GET request
and the form data is hidden in there.
A little bit safer,
but of course there are still more security implications
you have to think about.
Just sending things via POST isn't safe enough.
Just a little bit better than sending them via GET.
That's it for this video.
I wanted to show you how to do that,
accessing things in the form is very useful.
So I'll see you in the next one.